NYFW Spring '14 Day 5: 3.1 Phillip Lim, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Zero + Maria Cornejo, Reem Acra$$$To the beaches of the West Coast is where Tommy Hilfiger went for inspiration for spring 2014. He even brought the beach to Manhattan’s Pier 94 replete with a surf boards, sand dunes and a weathered boardwalk. Not to mention the Beach Boys as the show’s soundtrack. Cali style from “Melrose to Malibu” said the show notes and came the parade of various beach styles like dresses and separates with Hawaiian prints, pants inspired by scuba gear, swimsuits, neoprene skirts, hoodies and bomber jackets in bright, happy colors. In February this year during the fall 2013 shows, Tommy Hilfiger opened a store on Melrose Avenue, and the LA lifestyle seemed to have rubbed off well on Hilfiger.

If Hilfiger’s runway was covered in beach sand, Phillip Lim’s was laid with salt. Or was it crystal pebbles? Unusual terrains and landscapes and geode crystals were the inspiration behind 3.1 Phillip Lim collection. He showed the inspiration by recreating the veining seen on geode crystals through embroidery on his highly structured clothes. He did a wood grain effect on tunics and trousers. He used fabrics like jacquard, scuba leather and denim to create a rigid silhouette. His most successful looks however were those pieces with a bit of sway and movement like the ivory flounce dress with blue geode embroidery.

By now, we all know that it is not a Donna Karan show without a parade of dresses in earth tones – browns, sands, terracotas. There were plenty of those in the designer’s signature draping technique. She also showed several pieces in shades of blue  — elongated jackets with a slouchy feel, wrap dresses, oversized men’s shirts and skirts that resembled sarongs — which were refreshing.

Modernism and minimalism were the key words at Zero + Maria Cornejo and at the early part of her show she explored construction and shape much like most of the designers showing in New York. Structured minimalism is in the air. I particularly liked the first few looks done in solid safari colors because your eye was drawn to the shape of a coat or jacket. They showed the designer’s technique extremely well. The closing looks, sleek dresses in iridescent fabrics with metal plates, were also standouts.

Reem Acra channeled the disco years with her spring 2014 collection. She showed several slinky dresses in metallics like gold and silver. There were several chiffon numbers with billowing sleeves and skirts perfect for a romp on the dance floor. She introduced prints via polkadots and oversized houndstooth. And the mostly metallic and black collection was broken in parts by a jolt of red and orange.

Click on the slideshow to see the collections.

Follow me on Twitter and Instagram: @bluecarreon

Read more from me on Style Intel