Ryan Gosling turned down ‘Fifty Shades of Grey’ role: Actor joins Garrett Hedlund, Robert Pattinson, others who passed on steamy flick$$$Ryan Gosling turned down ‘Fifty Shades of Grey’ role: Actor joins Garrett Hedlund, Robert Pattinson, others who passed on steamy flick The dreamy ‘Crazy, Stupid, Love’ actor was among the big stars who passed on the chance to become Christian Grey on screen.

Ryan Gosling could have been Christian Grey, but the 'Notebook' heartthrob was — sadly — not interested in stripping for the steamy "Fifty Shades of Grey" role.

Gosling, 32, was the original choice for Universal Studios in bringing the BDSM-loving billionaire character to life, but the "Drive" actor turned it down, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

He and "Tron" actor Garrett Hedlund were said to be heavily courted by the studio, but both passed. Hedlund, 29, reportedly gave it a chance, but "couldn't connect with the character" and pulled out of the running last July, not wanting to commit to a trilogy.

Fan favorites Robert Pattinson and Matt Bomer also reportedly declined to do the steamy flick. A Change.org petition, which has been signed by more than 47,000 devoted "Bomerettes" as of Thursday, demands that the producers of the flick reconsider courting the "White Collar" actor.

RELATED: GARRETT HEDLUND TURNS DOWN LEAD IN 'FIFTY SHADES OF GREY': REPORT

The actor who was eventually chosen   Charlie Hunnam — also had his doubts at first, THR reports.

The "Sons of Anarchy" star only agreed to become E L James' beloved character after an Aug. 23 meeting with the film's director, Sam Taylor-Johnson, and producers Dana Brunetti and Michael De Luca.

Universal closed the trilogy deal with Hunnam, 33, and his on-screen love, actress Dakota Johnson, 23, by Labor Day.

Johnson, the daughter of actors Melanie Griffith and Don Johnson, won the role as a relatively unknown actress, though fans lobbied to see others like Alexis Bledel, Elizabeth Olson and Shailene Woodley play Anastasia Steele.

RELATED: ROBERT PATTINSON WAS FIRST CHOICE TO PLAY CHRISTIAN GREY, CLAIMS BRET EASTON ELLIS

Woodley even considered, according to THR, saying the nudity and explicit sex scenes didn't scare her, but the "Descendants" actress has a major book series already on the way to theaters in "Divergent," which opens in March, so it presented several scheduling conflicts.