New York Dismisses Criticism of New 911 System$$$Struck by an out-of-control driver fleeing the police, a 4-year-old girl lay dying on an Upper West Side sidewalk in early June. Officers immediately radioed for an ambulance, and one arrived about eight minutes later — an eternity to those waiting on the street. The girl, Ariel Russo, was declared dead at the hospital less than an hour later.

Blame quickly spread, with much of it directed at the city’s 911 emergency network.

Other episodes began to surface. Calls to the 911 system generated conflicting addresses for dispatchers; screens appeared to indicate that information had been lost; an unacceptably long response time to a fire in the Bronx was recorded.

Unions for emergency workers questioned whether New Yorkers were now less safe because of the mistakes. It was not human error, they said, but a gross indictment of the city’s $2 billion overhaul of the aging 911 computer network.

“They wanted it to be the system, because it feeds into this perception that the whole 911 system is a mess, that unified call taking doesn’t work, and on and on,” said Caswell F. Holloway, the deputy mayor for operations who is overseeing the project. “That is not the case.”

Indeed, the system has not shown wide-scale cracks in its operation. Response times are mostly unchanged since the rollout of the Police Department’s new technology on May 29. During an average week, emergency responders from the Fire and Police Departments arrived at the scene just as fast this year as last year.

Nonetheless, the suspicion that the network was at fault was particularly sensitive for the Bloomberg administration, which already suffered through a scandal-tarred upgrade: the CityTime project, an effort at modernizing New York’s payroll system that was undone by fraud and a lack of oversight, and resulted in criminal convictions and fines.

Now officials risked embarrassment from an even more expensive project: a 911 system upgrade that had already incurred delays, cost overruns and the replacement of a major contractor.

The City Council held a hearing in June to discuss the emergency system; the city comptroller began an audit around the same time. More glitches arose, and every issue about 911 response became a story about the failures of the new technology.

The complexity of the project, and the myriad systems underlying emergency calls, has created a perception, the mayor’s office said, of wide-scale problems that are in fact discrete issues, mostly unrelated to the upgrades. “It is such a fertile ground for deliberate mishmash where all glitches are created equal and every breakdown is a breakdown with the same thing,” Mr. Holloway said.

The debate lies largely in what constitutes an acceptable level of problems, because to be sure, problems have arisen.

Hewlett-Packard, which worked on integrating the back-end 911 systems, had the contract to upgrade the Police Department’s computer-aided dispatch system, but was replaced in 2008. A 2012 comptroller’s audit found inappropriate billing by the company and the potential for fraud; the comptroller, John C. Liu, referred the findings to the Manhattan district attorney’s office, which found no provable criminal conduct.

A new vendor, Intergraph of Huntsville, Ala., was awarded a $72.5 million contract. (The cost has since increased to $88 million.)

Intergraph introduced the new police system in May; soon after, about 35 of the new Intergraph-powered call-taker screens froze for about 16 minutes; the next day, 45 were frozen for 18 minutes. In each case, police officials opted to take the system off-line to fix the problem. Since then, they said, there have been no similar problems, though individual screens have occasionally frozen, requiring a 60-second reset.

For a brief time, two addresses were appearing on about 4,000 calls over several days. City officials blamed the way a third-party Verizon vendor was handling its database of primary and secondary addresses associated with calls.

There were also numerous complaints of dispatchers receiving the code “PD-Lost,” which appeared when the new police system transferred some bits of call information to the emergency medical service computer system ahead of other portions. City officials said no information or calls were lost.

And in the case of the girl’s death, the Fire Department said there had been a four-minute delay in dispatching the ambulance, and blamed human error.

“We believe there has been a lot of squandering of taxpayers’ money,” said Henry Garrido, associate director of District Council 37, which represents 911 operators. “When you’re being told that this is operator error, we take that very seriously. We’ve got to defend them.”